
INGREDIENTS
    3 x 350g chocolate loaf cakes (shop-bought variety is fine)
    300ml-400ml Tia Maria
    1-2 teaspoons cocoa for dusting
    chocolate-covered coffee beans (optional)

FOR THE FILLING
    2 large organic eggs
    75g caster sugar
    500g mascarpone
    250ml double cream
    125ml Tia Maria

METHOD
- Wrap the outside of a 23cm springform cake tin with clingfilm or foil to avoid leaks from the base. Slice the chocolate cakes thinly, and pour the 300ml (or more if needed) of Tia Maria into a shallow dish, ready for soaking the cake slices as you need them.

- Before you start to layer the cakes, whisk the eggs and sugar, and then beat in the mascarpone and double cream; I use an electric whisk for this, but there is no need to if you’re feeling muscly. Then add, gradually, the 125ml Tia Maria to make a creamy spreadable layer for the cake.

- Using approximately 1 cake per layer, dunk the slices in Tia Maria before lining the tin with them. Squidge them down, pressing confidently as you go; each layer should not be too thick, but juicily compact and solid. Spread a third of the cream mixture over the soaked cake slices.

- Repeat with another layer of soaked chocolate cake slices, then cream again. Finish with a layer of chocolate cake slices – not as soaked as the first 2 layers – reserving the last third of the cream mixture for later in a covered bowl. Press the cake layer down to make it as smooth as possible, then cover it with clingfilm and put the cake in the fridge overnight, or for up to 4 days.

- When you are ready to serve, take the cake out of the fridge, unmould, sit it on a plate or cake stand, then spread with the final third of cream mixture, before dusting with cocoa and serving. The cake is too deliciously damp to lift it off the tin’s base, but I shouldn’t let that worry you; if you want, though, you can scatter some chocolate-covered coffee beans around the cake, once it’s sitting on its serving plate, to deflect critical gaze away from the visible edge of tin.

MAKE AHEAD TIP
Make the tiramisu, cover with clingfilm, and store in the fridge for up to 4 days. Unmould and finish as directed.

FREEZE AHEAD TIP
Unmould the tiramisu, finish with the remaining cream then open freeze. When solid, cover securely with a double layer of clingfilm and return to the freezer for up to 3 months. To use, unwrap the tiramisu, place on a serving dish and thaw overnight in the fridge. Dust with cocoa and serve.

